about.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

# Bio

I am a [PhD candidate](https://www.cryptolux.org/index.php/Sergei_Tikhomirov) at the [University of Luxembourg](http://wwwen.uni.lu/) under the supervision of Professor Alex Biryukov. I have been closely following the blockchain space since late 2013. My main research interests are secure development practices on the Ethereum platform, domain-specific languages for smart contracts, privacy and anonymity in Bitcoin, and second-layer blockchain technologies such as the Lightning Network.

In 2017, I started [Basic Block Radio](https://basicblockradio.com/) (Базовый Блок) – a technology-focused Russian-language podcast about the blockchain space. We recorded more than 100 episodes, covering projects (Parity, Cosmos, Chainlink...) and events (Consensus, Web3 Summit, Baltic Honeybadger...).

I received my MA in applied maths from [CMC MSU](https://cs.msu.ru/en) in 2013. In 2013 – 2016, I was a researcher on code vulnerabilities and static analysis at [SmartDec](https://smartdec.net/) and an author / translator at [BitNovosti](http://bitnovosti.com/author/aab5420/).

See also: my [newsletter](https://sergei.substack.com/), [projects on Github](https://github.com/s-tikhomirov), [academic papers](https://scholar.google.lu/citations?hl=en&user=8w9I9uUAAAAJ), [public talks](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfo-qSso2IhRvuJj3AUEwBA) and the [accompanying slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov), [questions and answers on Stack Exchange](https://stackexchange.com/users/7581752/sergei-tikhomirov?tab=accounts), [books I read](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/86128188-sergei-tikhomirov).

## Bio in Russian

Я [аспирант](https://www.cryptolux.org/index.php/Sergei_Tikhomirov) [университета Люксембурга](http://wwwen.uni.lu/) под руководством профессора Алекса Бирюкова. Я слежу за блокчейн-индустрией с конца 2013 года. Мои исследовательские интересы – практики безопасной разработки на платформе Ethereum, предметно-ориентированные (domain specific) языки для умных контрактов, приватность и анонимность в Bitcoin и блокчейн-технологии второго уровня, такие как Lightning Network.

В 2017 году я основал подкаст «[Базовый Блок](https://basicblockradio.com/)» – русскоязычный подкаст о блокчейн-индустрии с фокусом на технологии. Мы записали более 100 выпусков, освещая проекты (Parity, Cosmos, Chainlink...) и конференции (Consensus, Web3 Summit, Baltic Honeybadger...).

Я окончил [ВМК МГУ](https://cs.msu.ru/) в 2013 году. В 2013 – 2016 годах я занимался исследованиями в области статического анализа кода в [SmartDec](https://smartdec.net/), а также писал и переводил статьи на [Bitnovosti](http://bitnovosti.com/author/aab5420/).

См. также: моя [рассылка](https://sergei.substack.com/), [проект на Github](https://github.com/s-tikhomirov), [научные статьи](https://scholar.google.lu/citations?hl=en&user=8w9I9uUAAAAJ), [публичные вытупления](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfo-qSso2IhRvuJj3AUEwBA) и [слайды к ним](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov), [вопросы и ответы на Stack Exchange](https://stackexchange.com/users/7581752/sergei-tikhomirov?tab=accounts), [книжная полка](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/86128188-sergei-tikhomirov).


# Publications and talks

## 2020

* **S. Tikhomirov**, R. Pickhardt, A. Biryukov, M. Nowostawski. [Probing Channel Balances in the Lightning Network](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.00333).

* **S. Tikhomirov**, P. Moreno-Sanchez, M. Maffei. [A Quantitative Analysis of Security, Anonymity and Scalability for the Lightning Network](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/303).

## 2019

* Introduction to Lightning network. At a [Letzblock meetup](https://www.meetup.com/bitFlyerEU/events/266920759/) at bitFlyer office, Luxembourg, on 18 December 2019 ([slides](/assets/Lightning-intro-Tikhomirov.pdf), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tiJIDXpHfVI)).

* A. Biruykov, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Deanonymization and linkability of cryptocurrency transactions based on network analysis](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/39724) ([PDF](/assets/papers/deanonymization-and-linkability.pdf), [slides](/assets/papers/deanonymization-and-linkability-slides.pdf), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XXO3FBqwwO8)). Presented at the [4th IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P)](https://www.ieee-security.org/TC/EuroSP2019/) on 17 June 2019.

* A. Biruykov, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Security and Privacy of Mobile Wallet Users in Bitcoin, Dash, Monero, and Zcash](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/39729
) ([PDF](/assets/papers/mobile-wallets.pdf)). In [Pervasive and Mobile Computing](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574119218307181), special issue on blockchain technologies.

* A. Biruykov, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Transaction Clustering Using Network Traffic Analysis for Bitcoin and Derived Blockchains](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/39728) ([PDF](/assets/papers/transaction-clustering.pdf), [slides](/assets/papers/transaction-clustering-slides.pdf)). Presented at the [2nd Workshop on Cryptocurrencies and Blockchains for Distributed Systems (CryBlock)](http://www.cryblock.org/) on 29 April 2019.

## 2018
* **S. Tikhomirov**, E. Voskresenskaya, I. Ivanitskiy, R. Takhaviev, E. Marchenko and Y. Aleksandrov. [SmartCheck: Static Analysis of Ethereum Smart Contracts](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/35862) ([PDF](/assets/papers/smartcheck.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/smartcheck-static-analysis-of-ethereum-smart-contracts), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FBMI6VAESWo)). Presented at the [1st International Workshop on Emerging Trends in Software Engineering for Blockchain](http://www.agilegroup.eu/wetseb2018/) on 27 May 2018.

* A. Biruykov, D. Khovratovich, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Privacy-preserving KYC on Ethereum](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/35915) ([PDF](/assets/papers/kyc-blockchain.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/privacy-preserving-kyc-on-ethereum), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-pw_v1DQTyc)). Presented at the [1st ERCIM Blockchain Workshop](https://easychair.org/cfp/ERCIMBlockchain2018) on 9 May 2018.

## 2017
* **S. Tikhomirov**. [Ethereum: State of knowledge and research perspectives](https://hdl.handle.net/10993/32468) ([PDF](/assets/papers/ethereum-sok.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/ethereum-state-of-knowledge-and-research-perspectives), [video](https://youtu.be/Mvp9Rz4c3MY)). Presented at [the 10th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security](http://fps2017.loria.fr/) on 24 October 2017.

* A. Biruykov, D. Khovratovich, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Findel: Secure Derivative Contracts for Ethereum](https://hdl.handle.net/10993/30975) ([PDF](/assets/papers/findel.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/findel-secure-derivative-contracts-for-ethereum), [video](https://youtu.be/D4sa9U2HXMQ)). Presented at the [1st Workshop on Trusted Smart Contracts](http://fc17.ifca.ai/wtsc/index.html) on 7 April 2017.

## 2016
* **С. Тихомиров**, Я. Александров, Е. Марченко, Л. Сафин. Поиск закладок в программном обеспечении (**S. Tikhomirov**, Y. Alexandrov, E. Marchenko, L. Safin. Finding undocumented features in programs). «Защита информации. Инсайд» №3, 2016 ([abstract](http://www.inside-zi.ru/pages/3_2016/20.html))

# Media appearences

## English

* 2020-04-21: [Researchers Surface Privacy Vulnerabilities in Bitcoin Lightning Network Payments](https://www.coindesk.com/researchers-surface-privacy-vulnerabilities-in-bitcoin-lightning-network-payments) (Coindesk)
* 2020-04-16: [Wallet balances on Bitcoin's Lightning Network aren't private, new report says](https://decrypt.co/25800/wallet-balances-on-bitcoins-lightning-network-arent-private-new-report-says) (Decrypt)
* 2020-04-04..05: [Lightning Hacksprint](https://wiki.fulmo.org/index.php?title=Lightning_HackSprint): [short interview in the warm-up stream](https://youtu.be/lBsUWishiEs?t=1680), [talk about channel probing](TODO), [a quick addition at the hackathon wrap-up](https://youtu.be/LSVOPb4stfM?t=3091) about the [getroutevia](https://github.com/s-tikhomirov/getroutevia) c-lightning plugin.
* 2018-04-27: [The Bitcoin boom and blockchain breakthrough](/images/bitcoin-boom-snt-report-2017.jpg) (in [SnT](https://wwwen.uni.lu/snt) [Annual report 2017](https://www.uni.lu/content/download/108158/1280308/version/1/file/SNT-Annual-Report-2017-web-interactive.pdf))
* 2017-05-15: [Uni.lu: SnT Team Wins Big at Hackathon](https://wwwen.uni.lu/snt/news_events/snt_team_wins_big_at_hackathon)

## Russian

* 2020-05-26: [IT Way Podcast (26) - Что такое блокчейн?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STPV_hUkrXc)
* 2020-04-23: [Forklog, Поясни за крипту / Сообщество крипторазработчиков и медиа](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EXXqc5DhHo0)
* 2020-04-21: [SDCast podcast, episode 115](https://sdcast.ksdaemon.ru/2020/04/sdcast-115/)
* 2020-03-15: [DevZen podcast, episode 279](https://devzen.ru/episode-0279/)
* 2019-12-13: [Иммигранткаст (Immigrantcast) podcast, on cryptocurrencies and life in Luxembourg](https://www.spreaker.com/user/immigrantcast/icast-ep-056-sergey-tikhomirov-luxemburg)
* 2019-10-26: [YouTube channel Zavodil, on blockchain conferences](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aC3fHp5uQd4)
* 2019-10-22: ["После прочтения" (After reading) podcast, on Peter Thiel's "Zero to One"](https://anchor.fm/afterreadingpodcast/episodes/01-e7tad8)
* 2019-04-11: ["Подкасты наступают" (Podcasts prevail)](https://medium.com/@podcasts.prevail/%D1%81%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B3%D0%B5%D0%B9-%D1%82%D0%B8%D1%85%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%B2-%D0%B8%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BD-%D0%B8%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%B9-%D0%B1%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BE%D0%B2%D1%8B%D0%B9-%D0%B1%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BA-%D0%B1%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BA%D1%87%D0%B5%D0%B9%D0%BD-%D0%B1%D0%B5%D0%B7-%D0%B1%D1%83%D0%BB%D1%88%D0%B8%D1%82%D0%B0-c1b6ea7b7999)
* 2018-05-11: [brdt.pro, episode 2 (Monero)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACIPnQfl1Zs)
* 2018-03-12: [brdt.pro, episode 1 (Ripple)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1EbjrADSSwc)
* 2018-01-15: [DevZen podcast, episode 174](http://devzen.ru/episode-0174/)
* 2017-12-06: [Popular mechanics (Russian edition), December 2017 issue](https://www.popmech.ru/technologies/397902-ethereum-platforma-dlya-blokcheyn-sistem-i-eyo-sozdatel-vitalik-buterin/)
* 2017-10-01: [Pro Bitcoin podcast, episode 62](http://podcast.probitcoin.ru/e/%D0%B2%D1%8B%D0%BF%D1%83%D1%81%D0%BA-62%D1%81%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%86%D0%B3%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D1%8C%D1%81%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B3%D0%B5%D0%B9/)
* 2016-12-18: [DevZen podcast, episode 123](http://devzen.ru/episode-0123/)

Commit message:

mention program committee work (Cryblock-2020)

about.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About
---

# Bio

I am a [PhD candidate](https://www.cryptolux.org/index.php/Sergei_Tikhomirov) at the [University of Luxembourg](http://wwwen.uni.lu/) under the supervision of Professor Alex Biryukov. I have been closely following the blockchain space since late 2013. My main research interests are secure development practices on the Ethereum platform, domain-specific languages for smart contracts, privacy and anonymity in Bitcoin, and second-layer blockchain technologies such as the Lightning Network.

In 2017, I started [Basic Block Radio](https://basicblockradio.com/) (Базовый Блок) – a technology-focused Russian-language podcast about the blockchain space. We recorded more than 100 episodes, covering projects (Parity, Cosmos, Chainlink...) and events (Consensus, Web3 Summit, Baltic Honeybadger...).

I received my MA in applied maths from [CMC MSU](https://cs.msu.ru/en) in 2013. In 2013 – 2016, I was a researcher on code vulnerabilities and static analysis at [SmartDec](https://smartdec.net/) and an author / translator at [BitNovosti](http://bitnovosti.com/author/aab5420/).

See also: my [newsletter](https://sergei.substack.com/), [projects on Github](https://github.com/s-tikhomirov), [academic papers](https://scholar.google.lu/citations?hl=en&user=8w9I9uUAAAAJ), [public talks](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfo-qSso2IhRvuJj3AUEwBA) and the [accompanying slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov), [questions and answers on Stack Exchange](https://stackexchange.com/users/7581752/sergei-tikhomirov?tab=accounts), [books I read](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/86128188-sergei-tikhomirov).

I was on a program committee of: [Cryblock-2020](http://www.cryblock.org/committees.html) ([archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20200617130714/http://www.cryblock.org/committees.html)).

## Bio in Russian

Я [аспирант](https://www.cryptolux.org/index.php/Sergei_Tikhomirov) [университета Люксембурга](http://wwwen.uni.lu/) под руководством профессора Алекса Бирюкова. Я слежу за блокчейн-индустрией с конца 2013 года. Мои исследовательские интересы – практики безопасной разработки на платформе Ethereum, предметно-ориентированные (domain specific) языки для умных контрактов, приватность и анонимность в Bitcoin и блокчейн-технологии второго уровня, такие как Lightning Network.

В 2017 году я основал подкаст «[Базовый Блок](https://basicblockradio.com/)» – русскоязычный подкаст о блокчейн-индустрии с фокусом на технологии. Мы записали более 100 выпусков, освещая проекты (Parity, Cosmos, Chainlink...) и конференции (Consensus, Web3 Summit, Baltic Honeybadger...).

Я окончил [ВМК МГУ](https://cs.msu.ru/) в 2013 году. В 2013 – 2016 годах я занимался исследованиями в области статического анализа кода в [SmartDec](https://smartdec.net/), а также писал и переводил статьи на [Bitnovosti](http://bitnovosti.com/author/aab5420/).

См. также: моя [рассылка](https://sergei.substack.com/), [проект на Github](https://github.com/s-tikhomirov), [научные статьи](https://scholar.google.lu/citations?hl=en&user=8w9I9uUAAAAJ), [публичные вытупления](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCfo-qSso2IhRvuJj3AUEwBA) и [слайды к ним](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov), [вопросы и ответы на Stack Exchange](https://stackexchange.com/users/7581752/sergei-tikhomirov?tab=accounts), [книжная полка](https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/86128188-sergei-tikhomirov).

Я участвовал в комитетах конференций: [Cryblock-2020](http://www.cryblock.org/committees.html) ([archived](https://web.archive.org/web/20200617130714/http://www.cryblock.org/committees.html)).

# Publications and talks

## 2020

* **S. Tikhomirov**, R. Pickhardt, A. Biryukov, M. Nowostawski. [Probing Channel Balances in the Lightning Network](https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.00333).

* **S. Tikhomirov**, P. Moreno-Sanchez, M. Maffei. [A Quantitative Analysis of Security, Anonymity and Scalability for the Lightning Network](https://eprint.iacr.org/2020/303).

## 2019

* Introduction to Lightning network. At a [Letzblock meetup](https://www.meetup.com/bitFlyerEU/events/266920759/) at bitFlyer office, Luxembourg, on 18 December 2019 ([slides](/assets/Lightning-intro-Tikhomirov.pdf), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tiJIDXpHfVI)).

* A. Biruykov, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Deanonymization and linkability of cryptocurrency transactions based on network analysis](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/39724) ([PDF](/assets/papers/deanonymization-and-linkability.pdf), [slides](/assets/papers/deanonymization-and-linkability-slides.pdf), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XXO3FBqwwO8)). Presented at the [4th IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy (EuroS&P)](https://www.ieee-security.org/TC/EuroSP2019/) on 17 June 2019.

* A. Biruykov, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Security and Privacy of Mobile Wallet Users in Bitcoin, Dash, Monero, and Zcash](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/39729
) ([PDF](/assets/papers/mobile-wallets.pdf)). In [Pervasive and Mobile Computing](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1574119218307181), special issue on blockchain technologies.

* A. Biruykov, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Transaction Clustering Using Network Traffic Analysis for Bitcoin and Derived Blockchains](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/39728) ([PDF](/assets/papers/transaction-clustering.pdf), [slides](/assets/papers/transaction-clustering-slides.pdf)). Presented at the [2nd Workshop on Cryptocurrencies and Blockchains for Distributed Systems (CryBlock)](http://www.cryblock.org/) on 29 April 2019.

## 2018
* **S. Tikhomirov**, E. Voskresenskaya, I. Ivanitskiy, R. Takhaviev, E. Marchenko and Y. Aleksandrov. [SmartCheck: Static Analysis of Ethereum Smart Contracts](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/35862) ([PDF](/assets/papers/smartcheck.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/smartcheck-static-analysis-of-ethereum-smart-contracts), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FBMI6VAESWo)). Presented at the [1st International Workshop on Emerging Trends in Software Engineering for Blockchain](http://www.agilegroup.eu/wetseb2018/) on 27 May 2018.

* A. Biruykov, D. Khovratovich, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Privacy-preserving KYC on Ethereum](http://hdl.handle.net/10993/35915) ([PDF](/assets/papers/kyc-blockchain.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/privacy-preserving-kyc-on-ethereum), [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-pw_v1DQTyc)). Presented at the [1st ERCIM Blockchain Workshop](https://easychair.org/cfp/ERCIMBlockchain2018) on 9 May 2018.

## 2017
* **S. Tikhomirov**. [Ethereum: State of knowledge and research perspectives](https://hdl.handle.net/10993/32468) ([PDF](/assets/papers/ethereum-sok.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/ethereum-state-of-knowledge-and-research-perspectives), [video](https://youtu.be/Mvp9Rz4c3MY)). Presented at [the 10th International Symposium on Foundations & Practice of Security](http://fps2017.loria.fr/) on 24 October 2017.

* A. Biruykov, D. Khovratovich, **S. Tikhomirov**. [Findel: Secure Derivative Contracts for Ethereum](https://hdl.handle.net/10993/30975) ([PDF](/assets/papers/findel.pdf), [slides](https://www.slideshare.net/SergeiTikhomirov/findel-secure-derivative-contracts-for-ethereum), [video](https://youtu.be/D4sa9U2HXMQ)). Presented at the [1st Workshop on Trusted Smart Contracts](http://fc17.ifca.ai/wtsc/index.html) on 7 April 2017.

## 2016
* **С. Тихомиров**, Я. Александров, Е. Марченко, Л. Сафин. Поиск закладок в программном обеспечении (**S. Tikhomirov**, Y. Alexandrov, E. Marchenko, L. Safin. Finding undocumented features in programs). «Защита информации. Инсайд» №3, 2016 ([abstract](http://www.inside-zi.ru/pages/3_2016/20.html))

# Media appearences

## English

* 2020-04-21: [Researchers Surface Privacy Vulnerabilities in Bitcoin Lightning Network Payments](https://www.coindesk.com/researchers-surface-privacy-vulnerabilities-in-bitcoin-lightning-network-payments) (Coindesk)
* 2020-04-16: [Wallet balances on Bitcoin's Lightning Network aren't private, new report says](https://decrypt.co/25800/wallet-balances-on-bitcoins-lightning-network-arent-private-new-report-says) (Decrypt)
* 2020-04-04..05: [Lightning Hacksprint](https://wiki.fulmo.org/index.php?title=Lightning_HackSprint): [short interview in the warm-up stream](https://youtu.be/lBsUWishiEs?t=1680), [talk about channel probing](TODO), [a quick addition at the hackathon wrap-up](https://youtu.be/LSVOPb4stfM?t=3091) about the [getroutevia](https://github.com/s-tikhomirov/getroutevia) c-lightning plugin.
* 2018-04-27: [The Bitcoin boom and blockchain breakthrough](/images/bitcoin-boom-snt-report-2017.jpg) (in [SnT](https://wwwen.uni.lu/snt) [Annual report 2017](https://www.uni.lu/content/download/108158/1280308/version/1/file/SNT-Annual-Report-2017-web-interactive.pdf))
* 2017-05-15: [Uni.lu: SnT Team Wins Big at Hackathon](https://wwwen.uni.lu/snt/news_events/snt_team_wins_big_at_hackathon)

## Russian

* 2020-05-26: [IT Way Podcast (26) - Что такое блокчейн?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STPV_hUkrXc)
* 2020-04-23: [Forklog, Поясни за крипту / Сообщество крипторазработчиков и медиа](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EXXqc5DhHo0)
* 2020-04-21: [SDCast podcast, episode 115](https://sdcast.ksdaemon.ru/2020/04/sdcast-115/)
* 2020-03-15: [DevZen podcast, episode 279](https://devzen.ru/episode-0279/)
* 2019-12-13: [Иммигранткаст (Immigrantcast) podcast, on cryptocurrencies and life in Luxembourg](https://www.spreaker.com/user/immigrantcast/icast-ep-056-sergey-tikhomirov-luxemburg)
* 2019-10-26: [YouTube channel Zavodil, on blockchain conferences](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aC3fHp5uQd4)
* 2019-10-22: ["После прочтения" (After reading) podcast, on Peter Thiel's "Zero to One"](https://anchor.fm/afterreadingpodcast/episodes/01-e7tad8)
* 2019-04-11: ["Подкасты наступают" (Podcasts prevail)](https://medium.com/@podcasts.prevail/%D1%81%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B3%D0%B5%D0%B9-%D1%82%D0%B8%D1%85%D0%BE%D0%BC%D0%B8%D1%80%D0%BE%D0%B2-%D0%B8%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BD-%D0%B8%D0%B2%D0%B0%D0%BD%D0%B8%D1%86%D0%BA%D0%B8%D0%B9-%D0%B1%D0%B0%D0%B7%D0%BE%D0%B2%D1%8B%D0%B9-%D0%B1%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BA-%D0%B1%D0%BB%D0%BE%D0%BA%D1%87%D0%B5%D0%B9%D0%BD-%D0%B1%D0%B5%D0%B7-%D0%B1%D1%83%D0%BB%D1%88%D0%B8%D1%82%D0%B0-c1b6ea7b7999)
* 2018-05-11: [brdt.pro, episode 2 (Monero)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ACIPnQfl1Zs)
* 2018-03-12: [brdt.pro, episode 1 (Ripple)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1EbjrADSSwc)
* 2018-01-15: [DevZen podcast, episode 174](http://devzen.ru/episode-0174/)
* 2017-12-06: [Popular mechanics (Russian edition), December 2017 issue](https://www.popmech.ru/technologies/397902-ethereum-platforma-dlya-blokcheyn-sistem-i-eyo-sozdatel-vitalik-buterin/)
* 2017-10-01: [Pro Bitcoin podcast, episode 62](http://podcast.probitcoin.ru/e/%D0%B2%D1%8B%D0%BF%D1%83%D1%81%D0%BA-62%D1%81%D0%BF%D0%B5%D1%86%D0%B3%D0%BE%D1%81%D1%82%D1%8C%D1%81%D0%B5%D1%80%D0%B3%D0%B5%D0%B9/)
* 2016-12-18: [DevZen podcast, episode 123](http://devzen.ru/episode-0123/)
